
Test cases for calculator:

1. Check the brand name of the calculator.
2. Check whether the brand logo is displayed on the calculator or not.
3. Check the colour of the calculator.
4. Check the shape of the calculator.
5. Check the height and length of the calculator.
6. Check the material of the calculator.
7. Check the screen size of the calculator.
8. Check that buttons are properly displayed or not.
9. Check that numbers are properly displayed on buttons or not.
10. Check that arithmetic signs are properly displayed or not.
11. Check that the ON and OFF buttons are properly displayed or not.
12. Check the size of each of the buttons in the calculators.
13. Check the colour of each button of the calculator.
14. Check whether the calculator has a flip cover or not.
15. Check whether the calculator is operated by battery or solar.
16. Check whether the calculator can add numbers.
17. Check whether the calculator can subtract numbers.
18. Check whether the calculator can multiply numbers.
19. Check whether the calculator can divide numbers.
20. Check whether the calculator can perform addition for two integer numbers.
21. Check whether the calculator can perform addition for two negative numbers.
22. Check whether the calculator can perform subtraction for two integer numbers.
23. Check whether the calculator can perform subtraction for two negative numbers.
24. Check whether the calculator can perform subtraction of one negative and one positive number.
25. Check whether the calculator can perform the multiplication of two integer numbers.
26. Check whether the calculator can perform the multiplication of two negative numbers.
27. Check whether the calculator can perform the multiplication of one negative and one positive number.
28. Check whether the calculator can perform the division of two integer numbers.
29. Check whether the calculator can perform the division of two negative numbers.
30. Check whether the calculator can perform the division of one positive number and one negative number.
31. Check whether the calculator can divide numbers by zero
32. Check whether on pressing two operators one after the other, the latest one will override the previous operator.
33. Check whether the calculator gives the correct result in the case of operations containing decimal numbers.
34. Check whether the limit of the response value is.
35. Check the number of digits allowed to enter in the calculator for any operation.
36. Check whether the calculator time-out works as expected to turn the calculator off.
37. Check whether the battery life of the calculator stays as expected.
38. Check whether the calculator doesn’t allow characters.
39. Check whether pressing the arithmetic operations button when no number is present does not have any effect on the upcoming calculations.
40. Check how much pressure is required to operate the button in the calculator. 
41. Check that maximum numbers are displayed properly on the LCD screen or not.
42. Check the number of digits allowed to enter in the calculator for any operation.
43. Check whether keeping the calculator unused for a certain period turns it off automatically.
44. Check whether the user can delete digits one by one using the backspace key.

Negative Test Case For Calculator:

1. Check whether the calculator breaks when dropped.
2. Check how the calculator handles errors when a number is divided by zero.
3. Check how the calculator handles when pressing two buttons simultaneously.
4. Check how the calculator handles the input when a certain button is pressed for a long time.
5. Check how the calculator handles 0/-0, 0/0, -0/-0.
6. Check whether the calculator is waterproof or not.
7. Check whether pressing two operators one after the other, the latest one will override the previous operator.
8. Check that after erasing numbers the calculation is taking into account the latest number and not any previous number with more digits.
9. Check that pressing the operations when no number is present does not have any effect on the upcoming calculations.
10. Check whether the calculator can operate on a low battery.
11. Check whether the calculator displays unexpected behaviour when using it on a low battery.


Test cases for Coffee Vending Machine:

1. Check that type of the coffee vending machine
2. Check that the company name, logo properly displayed or not
3. Check the design of the vending machine
4. Check that material of the vending machine
5. Check that dimension of the vending machine
6. Check that color of the coffee vending machine
7. Check the size of the vending machine
8. Check the height, weight of the vending machine
9. Check that labels are properly displayed on buttons or not
10. Check that all the buttons should be displayed properly.
11. Check that the coffee vending machine should be started when the user presses the Power ON button.
12. Check that coffee vending machine should be off when the user press on power OFF button
13. Check that vending machine all buttons should be working properly
14. Check that when the vending machine starts, the indicator lights should be working properly.
15. Check that the mechanism should be working properly when ingredients are under capacity level
16. Check that the auto cleaner facility is working properly or not
17. Check that the water level indicator should be working properly.
18. Check that the half-cup facility is working properly or not
19. Check that the cup quantity counter should work properly.
20. Check that the automatic temperature is working properly or not
21. Check that the safety lock system is available or not.
22. Check that the cleaner should work properly for the coffee vending machine.

Negative Test Case For Coffee Machine:

1. Check that behavior of the coffee vending machine when the power supply is improper
2. Check that coffee should not be leakage from anywhere on the machine
3. Check that coffee vending machine sound should not be noisy.
4. Check that coffee vending machine operation should be working properly if the water container’s capacity is exceeded.
5. Check that vending machine operation should be working properly if the coffee container’s capacity is exceeded.
6. Check that vending machine operation should be working properly if the milk container’s capacity is exceeded.
7. Check that machine operation should be working properly if the sugar container’s capacity is exceeded.
8. Check that coffee vending machine parts should not be damaged from anywhere on the machine.


Test cases for Google Search:

1. Check whether the search box is clickable or not.
2. Check if the google page is opening or not after entering https://www.google.com in the URL box or not.
3. Check if the Google logo is displayed or not at the top.
4. Check Is the information should correctly visible.
5. Check and hit the submit button without entering anything in the search field and clicking search; nothing should occur.
6. Check if the user is searching by entering the special character like! @,#,$, etc., and hit the submit button; you should search with the alphanumeric values.
7. The “Did you mean” link should display if the person is searching with invalid input.
8. Check if the test cases do not match the search criteria and get the did you mean in the answer result.
9. The search result should be relevant to the search keyword and contain links to the respective web pages.
10. Check the search result not only show the single keyword result but also displays multiple keyword results with the entered keyword.
11. Check if the search result only displays alphabets or if it also displays special characters, alphanumeric, and images in the search result.
12. Check while entering the keyword it should display the autosuggestion, which should be relevant to the entered keyword.
13. Check whether you are getting the most popular or relevant query search result or the given keyword.
14. Check If a user entered wrong or misspelled keywords, then search results should display a suggestion of the correct keyword. And if the user clicks on the right keyword, then respect to the result should be shown to check whether Google displays the total number of search results of a particular keyword.
15. Check how much time Google takes to show the result of a specific keyword
16. Check if a user can copy and paste keywords in the google search box.
17. Check the search results are displayed based on localization or globalization.
18. Check the search result prioritizing the localized web pages compared to the globalization web pages.
19. Check some Google services like calculator service is displayed when a user searches for a calculator. With the calculator, the user should be able to perform all the Arithmetic operations.
20. Check when a user searches for Google converter services then the converter service should be displayed at the top of the search result, and also the user to request the converting service
21. If there is no result, it should display the message per the SRS requirement document.
22. Check whether the search results displaying or not when the user can search in different languages
23. Check if the related keywords are displayed below the web page search results.
24. Check the number of search results displayed on a single page.
25. Check if there is a number on the search result page then, there should be pagination at the bottom of the page.
26. Check if the Google search function is case-sensitive or not.
27. Search results displayed should be relevant to the search keyword
28. % sign-in search keyword should not redirect to 404 ERROR
29. The application should not crash if the user inserts % in the search field.
30. When the user starts typing the word in the text box, it should suggest words that match the typed keyword.
31. There should be pre-defined search criteria for auto-complete, e.g., after typing the first three letters, it should suggest a matching keyword.
32. The result should be maintained when the user clicks on any link from the result and navigates back.
33. After clicking the Search field – search history should be displayed (latest search keyword)
34. All search keywords/filters should get cleared by clicking the Reset button.
35. Search results should be cleared on clicking the clear search button
36. The history displayed in the search field should only be relevant to log-in users.
37. Pagination should be tested for searches returning a high number of records.
38. The total number of search records/results should be displayed on the page
39. Search keywords should get highlighted with color in the search results
40. For eCommerce sites – search keywords should suggest similar kinds of products/items
41. For Advanced Search – limited search filters should be provided
42. Water text should be provided for users to understand what to search
43. Validate search rules defined for “Exact Match” with the search keyword
44. Validate search rules defined for “Similar Match” with the search keyword
45. Validate search rules defined to search with a set of keywords
46. The user should be able to search when he enters the keyword and hits the ‘Enter’ button on the keyboard


Test cases for A4Sheet:

1. Check the color of the paper and whether the paper is white or not.
2. Check whether the paper is ruled or unruled. 
3. Check whether the paper is oil paper or normal paper.
4. Check whether we can write with any pen.
5. Check whether the paper can erase with an eraser or not.
6. Check the quality of the paper by using different pens and pencils.
7. Check the use of whitener on paper.
8. Check the paper is of the correct size, texture, color, material, thickness, and translucent/opaque.
9. Check if the paper can be recyclable.
10. Check if the paper can hold the ink of the pen when written.
11. Check if the paper is sticky when written with a pen/marker
12. Check that writing on paper with a pen and pencil is comfortable.
13. Check if the thickness of the paper is of standard size.
14. Check if the paper supports multiple usages of pen/pencil/marker
15. Check if the paper is fragile/flimsy
16. Check the quality of the paper once the eraser is used.
17. Check that paper is plain and soft.
18. Check that there should not be any dust on the paper.
19. Check the measurements of the paper.
20. Check whether the A4 sheet is empty or not(Written or Not)
21. Check whether it is folded or not.
22. Check whether the paper is in wet or dry condition.
23. Check whether it is not dared inside in any corner.
24. Check the paper by tearing it.
25. Check the paper by writing using all the colors of the pen.
26. Check the paper using all kinds of a pen (ballpoint, gel, ink, pencil) to find the absorbance capacity of the paper.
27. Check the paper by pouring water.
28. Check the paper by pouring oil to check the absorbance.
29. Check the oil-filled paper by pouring the powder into the removed oil.
30. Check the Erasing process in the paper.


Test cases for Password Field:

1. Verify that Current Password, New Password, and Confirm Password field are displayed on screen or not
2. Check if the user can enter the password in the text box.
3. Check that label text is properly displayed or not
4. Check that placeholder are properly displayed or not
5. Check that alignment of the text field are properly displayed or not
6. Check that tab key functionality is properly working or not 
7. Check if the user can paste the password in the field.
8. Check the max char limit for the password fields.
9. Check the min char limit for the password fields.
10. Check if the entered password is visible or encrypted.
11. Check if the password field allows blank spaces only.
12. Check if the password field accepts alphabets.
13. Check if the password field accepts numbers.
14. Check if the password field accepts the lowercase and uppercase alphabets.
15. Check if the password field accepts special characters.
16. Check error message is displayed or not when the user clicks submit button without entering any value in the password field. If field is mandatory
17. Check based on the inputted password text it should display the progress bar, Weak, Medium & Strong
18. Check if the password view functionality is available so the user can see the entered password. Eye visible on the right side of the password text box
19. Check on the Click eye icon entered password should be visible in a readable format.
20. Check the asterisk symbol for the password field if it is mandatory.
21. Check if the password length is displayed for the field.
22. Check if the app has some guidelines for password strength.
23. Check if the forgot password option is shown right after the wrong password is entered.
24. Verify if the forgot password link is working correctly and landing on the correct page.
25. Check if the forgot password link is directed to the right page i.e. forgot password page.
26. Verify that the link to change the password is sent to the user’s emailId only.
27. Verify that the security questions asked are the same as the ones that the user entered during sign-up.
28. Verify that if a wrong answer is entered to any security question, it should not proceed to the next question.
29. Verify that the new password matches with required specifications for the password value. For example, it should allow a combination of special characters, upper case characters, numerics, etc.
30. Verify that the login should be possible with the newly changed password.
31. Check if the link gets expired once the user has set a new password.
32. Check if the link is live/applicable for one-time use only.
33. Verify that the link is working only for a specified period of time and then shows a time-out message.
34. Verify that the user should not be allowed to request forgot password frequently.
35. Check if the password stored in the database is encrypted

Negative Test Case For Password Field

36. Verify that the user should not be able to change password with invalid current password
37. Verify that that user should not be able to change password with mismatch password and confirm password fields
38. Verify that the user should not able to enter more then maximum char in password fields
39. Verify that the user should not be able to change password with blank field.


Test Case For Amazon Cart

1. Check whether the shopping cart icon is displayed as expected or not.
2. Verify whether the shopping cart page UI should be as expected
3. Check whether the Add to Cart icon is seen on the product detail page.
4. Check whether the other Details of the cart, Cart design, label, and buttons are as per requirements.
5. Check whether the add to cart button is responsive.
6. Check whether the item is added to the cart when clicking on the button.
7. Check whether the item added to the cart shows the same item as clicking on add to cart.
8. Check whether the quantity button is displayed as expected.
9. Check whether the ‘+’ and ‘-‘ button is seen on the shopping cart page.
10. Check whether the same product is added to the cart along with an increase in the corresponding cost in the total price when clicking on the ‘+’ button.
11. Check whether the same product is deducted from the cart along with a decrease in the corresponding cost in the total price when clicking on the ‘-‘ button.
12. Check whether the cart becomes empty when the user clicks on the ‘-‘ button when only a single product is present in the shopping cart.
13. Check whether the shopping cart page has options for edit, delete, save etc
14. Check whether the Product Detail Page is shown with all the necessary links and information.
15. Check whether the Next Button and Cancel Button are available on the Shopping Cart page.
16. Check whether the add to cart button is seen below the product in the wishlist.
17. Check whether the user can mark his order as a gift on the shopping cart page.
18. Check whether the user can add a gift message.
19. Check whether the user is redirected to the checkout page after clicking on the checkout button.
20. Check whether the Checkout Address Page consists of all the details of the product such as Name, Quantity, Amount, etc.
21. Check whether that Proceed button works properly
22. Check whether a user can apply for a valid coupon.
23. Check whether the order price changes accordingly when the coupon is applied
24. Check whether the user can add a text note for all products.
25. Check whether the shopping cart holds the items till the session is active.
26. Check whether the user can add any or all products to their wishlist.
27. Check whether the shopping cart doesn’t contain any duplicate items
28. Check whether the user can delete items from the shopping cart and those deleted items should not proceed for further payment.
29. Check whether the shopping cart contains the price of the product, its name and a link to the product’s details.
30. Check whether the right error message is displayed when the user enters invalid input in all the mandatory fields on the checkout address page.
31. Check whether a Back-to-cart link is available so that the user can modify the cart content if needed.
32. Check whether the user can add maximum number of items into the cart
33. Check whether the system accepts a discount coupon with one invalid character.
34. Check whether the user can place an order where the total discount is more than the entire order.
35. Check whether the user can add an item to the shopping cart when the item is out of stock.
36. Check whether the user can click on the ‘+’ button when only 1 item is left in the stock.
37. Check whether the user can add the same item to the cart multiple times

Negative test cases for Amazon Cart:

1. Check whether the user can access the checkout page with any product in the cart.
2. Check whether the user can add the product to the cart when the product is out of stock.
3. Check whether unregistered users can access the Checkout Address Page.
4. Check how the system functions when mandatory fields such as Name, Street Address, City, State, Country, and Postal code are not filled.
5. Check whether the website displays how the system functions when the user fills in an invalid coupon.
6. Check whether the cart is editable then check that the user can enter floating numbers
7. Check whether the user can place an order where the order total price is Zero (0).
8. Check how the system acts when editing the quantity of the item in the cart with invalid quantities such as only spaces, negative values, 0, characters, special characters etc.


Test cases for what’s app:

1. Check that the user can set DP and status on What’s app.
2. Check that the user can update the existing DP and What’s app status.
3. Check that the user can send messages to any individual selected from his contact list.
4. Check that Chats window contains all the chat list with DP and name and last message preview of the other person with whom chat was initiated.
5. Check that clicking a chat in the chat list opens a new window containing all the chats received and sent with the other person.
6. Check that the user can check the message delivered and read the time for a message in the ‘Message Info’ section.
7. Check that the user can share or receive contact with the other person.
8. Check that the user can create a group by adding multiple people from his contact list.
9. Check that the user can send and receive the message in group chats.
10. Check that users can send and receive images, audio, video, and emoticons in the chat with individuals.
11. Check that users can send and receive images, audio, video, and emoticons in group chats.
12. Check that the user can send and receive chats in the secondary languages available.
13. Check that users can delete text, images, audio, and video messages within a chat.
14. Check that users can clear their complete chat history in an individual or group chat.
15. Check that users can archive chats in an individual or group chat.
16. Check that users can block a user to prevent any message from getting received from the blocked contact.
17. Check that the user makes WhatsApp calls to the person in his contact list.
18. Check that the user can receive WhatsApp calls from the person in his contact list.
19. Check that users can pin individual chats from the chat section.
20. Check that users can mark chats as favorites and access all chats marked as favorites from the ‘Favorites’ section.
21. Check that the user can set a chat wallpaper.
22. Check that the user sets privacy settings.
23. Check that the user can update turning on/off last seen, online status, read receipts, etc.
24. Check that the user can update notification settings. 
25. Check that the user can update notification sound, on/off, and show preview for both group and individual chats.
26. Check that the user can take the complete chat backup of his chats.
27. Check that the user can update the phone number that is used by the WhatsApp application.
28. Check that the user can disable/delete his Whatsapp account.
29. Check that the user can check data usage by images, audio, video, and documents in WhatsApp chats.
30. Check whether the user can see setting options on the screen or not.
31. Check the Account functionality with the Privacy option.
32. Check the Account functionality with the Security option.
33. Check the Account functionality with Two steps verification option.
34. Check the Account functionality with the Change number option.
35. Check the Account functionality with the Request account info option.
36. Check the Account functionality with the Delete my account option.
37. Verify the user can change the Chat setting with App language, Font size, Wall Paper, Chat back up, and Chat history.
38. Check the user can see and change the notification settings.
39. Check the user can see and change the Data and storage usage settings.
40. Check if the How Help option is helpful for the users.

Negative Test Cases For WhatsApp

1. Check while hiding the last seen to other users it should not display.
2. Check the blue ticks should not display when sending the messages.
3. Check if the date time format is displaying in the wrong format.
4. Check the displaying date and time in the wrong format.
5. Try to send more than 10 images at a time. 
6. Try to send a video having a size > than the limited size.
7. Copy and paste thousands of msgs at a time and observe the behavior.
8. Send multiple messages to multiple users and groups.
9. Try to send all emoticons at a time in one msg.


Test cases for Zomato:

1.Search Function:

1. Verify that search box field UI is as per specification or not.
2. Verify that placeholder for the search box fields is as per specification or not.
3. Verify that when user clicks on the search field box then cursor should be displayed in the search box field.
4. Verify that if user enters valid food name, then search result should be displayed.
5. Verify that if user enters valid restaurant name, then search result should be displayed.
6. Verify that if user search by valid food name, then relevant food search result should be displayed on the screen.
7. Verify that if user search by valid restaurant name, then relevant food search result should be displayed on the screen.
8. Verify that user is able to click on the search result or not.
9. Verify that user is able to search food by voice search functionality or not.
10. Verify that user is able to search restaurant by voice search functionality or not.

Negative Test Cases:

1. Verify that if user enters only special characters, then “Oh Sorry! No search result has found” like message should be displayed on the screen.
2. Verify that if user enters only numeric characters, then “Oh Sorry! No search result has found” like message should be displayed on the screen.
3. Verify that if user enters only numeric and special characters, then “Oh Sorry! No search result has found” like message should be displayed on the screen.
4. Verify that user is able to blank search or not.

2.Home Page:

1. Validation that billing discounts should be displayed on the home page.
2. Validation that past orders should be shown on the home page for quick delivery.
3. Validation that restaurants should be shown on the home page as per distance from the delivery location.
4. Validation that the right delivery location should be shown.
5. Validation that the filter and sort options should be provided on the home page. 
6. Filters options such as Cuisines and rating should be shown. 
7. Sorting of restaurants should be done as per sort criteria such as rating, delivery time, cost.
8. Validation that history and donate options should be shown on the home page.
9. Verify that user is able to make online food order without login into application.
10. Verify that user is not able to see profile page.
11. Verify that if any restaurant serves pure veg food, then pure veg label should be displayed for the restaurant block.
12. Verify that user is able to access all the modules of the application.
13. Verify that user is able to access profile page of the application.
14. Verify that user is able to make online food order.
15. Verify that user is able to edit and update profile page or not.
16. Verify that user has all access to application with logged in mode.

3.Order Page

1. Verify that the restaurant name with rating should be displayed clearly.
2. Verify that restaurant photos should be displayed properly or not.
3. Verify that list of the cuisines should be displayed under the restaurant names.
4. Verify that user should be able to see veg and non veg category on the ordering page or not.
5. Verify that if user selects veg items, then only veg food items should be displayed.
6. Verify that if any food item is in veg category, then veg symbol should be displayed on the food item block.
7. Verify that if any food item is in non veg category, then non veg symbol should be displayed on the food item block.
8. Verify that if user selects non veg items, then only veg food items should be displayed.
9. Verify green and red dots are marked against items as per veg and non-veg.
10. Verify that user is able to see billing discount on the order page or not.
11. Verify that user is able to see total numbers of reviews on the ordering page or not.
12. Verify that user is able to see reviews by the category or not.
13. Verify that mode of the delivery is displayed properly or not.
14. Verify that approximately time of the delivery food is displayed as per expected or not.
15. Verify that user is able to see offers on the ordering page or not.
16. Verify that user is able to add food item into the cart or not.
17. Verify that add on food items option is displayed on the page or not.
18. Verify that user is able to see items with its price or not.
19. Verify user is able to increase quantity of the food item.
20. Verify that user is able to decrease quantity of the food items.
21. Verify that user is able mark as favorite food item or not.
22. Verify recommended section should be displayed.

4.Card Page

1. Verify that user should be able to see added items into the cart.
2. Verify that user is able to increase the quantity of the food items from the cart page or not.
3. Verify that user is able to decrease the quantity of the food items from the cart page or not.
4. Verify that user should be able to delete food items from the cart page.
5. Verify that single food items on the cart page.
6. Verify that multiple food items on the cart page.
7. Verify that food price is displayed for the food items or not.
8. Verify that veg symbol is displayed for the veg food items or not.
9. Verify that non veg symbol is displayed for non veg food items or not.
10. Verify that user is able to edit food items or not.
11. Verify that user is able to add more food items from the cart checkout page or not.
12. Verify that user is able to see item total price on the cart checkout page or not.
13. Verify that user is able to see prices should be changed as per the increasing or decreasing food items on the cart.
14. Verify that extra charges should be displayed on the cart checkout page or not.
15. Verify that user is able to see delivery address option on the cart checkout page or not.
16. Verify that user is able to edit delivery address or not.
17. Verify that user is able to change delivery address or not.
18. Verify that user is able to select payment method on cart checkout page.
19. Verify that user is able to apply promo codes on the cart checkout page or not.
20. Verify that user is able to apply coupon codes or not.
21. Verify that if user apply any promo codes or coupon codes then total prices should be reflected as per applied promo codes or coupon codes.
22. Verify that user is able to place order from the cart checkout page or not.
23. Verify upon adding another item from the different restaurant the earlier item should be removed automatically.
24. Verify cart page can be minimized.
25. Verify your details should be shown.
26. Verify there is an option to ad voice directions.
27. Verify there should be an option to order for someone else.

5.Account Page

1. Verify different account options should be shown for the user,
2. Verify past orders, favorite orders, and address book can be accessed from the account section.
3. Verify help option should be shown in case any help is required.
4. Verify about, send feedback, log out options should be displayed correctly.

6.Registration and Login Page

1. Verify that when user open online food ordering application then it should be asked for the user’s location.
2. Verify that user is able to login in the application without registration or not.
3. Verify that user is able to sign up or login with mobile number or not.
4. Verify that user is able to sign up or login with email address or not.
5. Verify that user is able to redirect on home page screen without login or not.
6. Verify that logo of the online food ordering application on the login screen.
7. Verify that application name is displayed on the login page or not.
8. Verify that user is able to login with invalid credentials or not.
9. Verify that user is able to skip login screen or not.
10. Verify that links on the login page should be working properly or not.
11. Verify users can log in via different options such as email and password, Facebook, or Google sign-in.
12. Verify users can create an account username and email.
13. Verify users can choose delivery locations upon successful registration.
14. Verify authentication is performed correctly when OTP is sent to the customer.